---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq/
layout: page
published: true
---

# What is the Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center?

The Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center (PFSRDC) is a consortium of Universities, in partnership with the Census Bureau, that offers access to datasets that are mainly only offered through a FSRDC.

Temple faculty and students will be able to conduct statistical analysis of a wide range of non-public microdata collected by the U.S. Census Bureau and other government agencies.

These datasets are among the largest and most important sources of statistical information in the US and many of them can only be accessed through a FSRDC. They represent a vital resource for researchers in economics, business, demography, sociology, medicine, statistics, criminology, and many other disciplines.

# What are the advantages of using the PFSRDC?

The PFSRDC will enable Temple researchers to work with restricted-access versions of numerous important datasets in the federal statistical system.  The restricted access versions of data sets can be superior to public versions of the same data for the purposes of addressing certain research questions. The advantages of restricted data sets may include:

- Access to underlying micro data as opposed to aggregated data
- Larger samples
- Finer level of geographic identifiers
- Virtually no top or bottom-coding
- Restricted-access datasets can be linked together
- Restricted access datasets can be linked to external data by matching individual respondents or geographic areas.

The number of restricted-access datasets that are available through federal statistical research data centers is growing rapidly. They contain a wide range of data sources from panel data on all workers and firms in the US to specialized surveys on topics such as medical expenditures, pollution abatement, research and development, and crime victimization.

# Who are the members of the PFSRDC?

- Temple University
- The University of Pennsylvania
- Drexel University
- Pennsylvania State University
- and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.

# How is the PFSRDC governed?

Management of the PFSRDC will be overseen by a board appointed by the consortium members.  Each member will appoint one representative to the Review Board.  The Review Board will appoint a Director of the Branch.  The physical location of the PFSRDC will be staffed with an Administrator who will be employed by the Census Bureau.

# Can graduate students use data at the PFSRDC?

For graduate students, the PFSRDC will offer opportunities as research assistants to work with faculty in various disciplines on research projects.  Additionally, graduate students will have unique opportunities to access data for their own research and to participate in funded research projects generated by ongoing grants associated with the PFSRDC.  Doctoral students submitting a proposal for dissertation work are asked to include their primary advisor as a co-principal investigator. It is recommended that the advisor also apply for Special Sworn Status.

# How is the data accessed?

The data can only be accessed on site at the PFSRDC.  Once a researcher has a project idea, they should draft a 2-3 page outline of the project idea (research question, data sets, methodology) and send it to the PFSRDC administrator. The PFSRDC administrator will review this project outline to confirm that the data are available and the project appears feasible. If available and feasible, they will recommend that the researcher develop the outline into a full proposal, following published research proposal guidelines. An FSRDC proposal is typically around 20 pages. It should emphasize the project’s benefits to the Census Bureau (a legal requirement) and research methodology. Proposal development is typically an iterative process with the PFSRDC administrator, taking about 3 months. When the full proposal is ready, it will be submitted for a full review by the Census Bureau and possibly other agencies.

When the Census Bureau has approved the proposal, the proposal may need to go to other agencies for review, if the data is owned by other agencies, or if it is commingled with IRS data. The typical proposal review takes 4-8 months.

In order to actually access the data, researchers will also need to apply for Special Sworn Status, which requires a background check and at least 3 years of residency in the United States for foreign nationals. Once acquired, Special Sworn Status can be maintained as long as the researcher has ongoing projects at the FSRDC. The typical SSS application takes around 2-3 months.

# What is the cost to access data at the PFSRDC?

Researchers from institutions that are not members of PFSRDC Consortium will be charged access fees.  Consortium membership is the most cost-effective way to provide Temple researchers with priority access to PFSRDC.

# Where is the PFSRDC located?

The PFSRDC is located at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
